Hi, I'm Bo with Free Code Camp. This network engineering course was developed by Brian

Farrell, and instructor with Edmonds college. It will prepare you to configure, manage and

troubleshoot computer networks. Also, the course is a great way to prepare for a comp

Tia's network plus exam. So let's start. Hello, I'm Brian ferrill. And welcome to pace I t's

session on the introduction to network devices, part one. Today we're going to be talking

about layer one devices, layer two devices. And then we're going to conclude with layer

three devices. There's a fair amount of information to cover. So let's go ahead and dive into

this session. Of course, I'm going to begin with layer one devices. Well, before I start

talking about the layer one devices, we need to talk about the open system interconnection

model, the OSI model, it was developed as a way to help disparate computing systems

to communicate with each other. The OSI reference model has seven layers. layer one is the physical

layer, layer two is data link. layer three is network layer four is transport layer five

is session. Layer six is presentation and layer seven is application. We're going to

be discussing the bottom three layers layers One, two and three today. Now most devices

do function at more than one layer of the OSI reference model. But when it comes time

to determining where they fit into the model, you must first determine the highest level

at which they operate, because that's where they fit into the OSI model. To do that, you

must know what they do and how that relates to the OSI model. And with that, let's talk

about analog modems. The word modem is actually derived from a contraction of modulator demodulator.

modems were developed to take a digital signal coming from a digital node and convert it

to an analog signal modulating the signal and placing it on a wire. In return, it would

accept an analog signal from the wire and convert it demodulating the signal back to

a digital signal that the node can understand. modems were developed to create a connection

between network segments via the public switched telephone network using the plain old telephone

system. Now modems provide for a single connection to a network. And they're only concerned about

the wire in the wire resides on the physical layer layer one of the OSI model, it doesn't

care where the signal comes from, it just does its job. Then there's the hub. A hub

functions as a concentrator or repeater in that it doesn't care where the signal comes

from, or where the signal is going. Kind of like the modem, it takes an electrical signal

that arrives on a port and replicates that signal out all of its other ports. hub may

have just a few ports, or it may have many ports in for a variety of reasons the hub

is not very common anymore in the modern network. So now let's move on to layer two devices.

The first layer two device that we're going to talk about is the switch. A switch utilizes

an application specific integrated circuit chip and a basic chip. The ASIC chip has specific

programming that allows the switch to learn when a device is on the network and which

ports it is connected to via that devices layer two MAC address. That's what makes a

switch a layer two device, a switch may have just a few ports or it may have many ports,

kind of like the hub. And although a switches smarter than a hub, it can still be very simple,

or it can be highly complex and programmable. A switch can only communicate with local network

devices. another layer two device that we need to talk about our wireless access points.

The whap whap is a specific type of network bridge that connects or bridges, wireless

network segments with wired network segments. The most common type of web bridges and 802

dot 11 wireless network segment with an 802 dot three Ethernet network segment just like

a switch a wire Access Point will only communicate with local network devices. Now let's move

on to layer three devices. And First up is the multi layer switch. A multi layer switch

provides normal layer two network switching services, but it will also provide layer three

or higher OSI model services. The most common multi layer switch is a layer three switch,

it not only utilizes an async chip for switching, but that async chip is also programmed to

handle routing functions. This allows the device to communicate and pass data to non

local network devices. A multi layer switch is a highly programmable and complex network

device. A multi layer switch may have just a few ports, or it may have a lot of ports.

They're not very common in the small office home office network. Because they're really

really expensive, you're more likely to find them in an enterprise local area network.

Now let's move on to the router. A router is the most common network device for connecting

different networks together, utilizing the OSI models layer three logical network information.

That's what makes a router a layer three device. The router uses software programming for decision

making, as compared to the switches use of an ASIC chip. The router uses this programming

to keep track of different networks in what it considers to be the best possible route

to reach those networks. A router can communicate with both local and non local network devices.

In most cases, a router will have fewer ports, then a switch. Now that concludes this session

on the introduction to network devices. Part One, we talked about layer one devices. We

talked about layer two devices. And we concluded with a couple of layer three devices. Good

day. I'm Brian ferrill. And welcome to pace eyeties session on introduction to network

devices, part two. Today we're going to discuss some security network devices. And then we'll

move on to some optimization and performance devices. And with that, let's go ahead and

begin this session. And we will begin by talking about security devices. First up is the firewall.

Now a firewall can be placed on routers or hosts in that it can be software based or

it can be its own device. A firewall functions at multiple layers of the OSI model, specifically

at layers 234 and seven. A firewall can block packets from entering or leaving the network.

And it does this through one of two methods it can do it through stateless inspection,

in which the firewall will examine every packet that enters or leaves the networks against

a set of rules. Once the packet matches a rule, the rule is enforced in the specified

action is taken, or it may use state full inspection. This is when a firewall will only

examine the state of a connection between networks. Specifically, when a connection

is made from an internal network to an external network. The firewall will not examine any

packets returning from the external connection. It only cares about the state of the connection.

As a general rule, external connections are not allowed to be initiated with the internal

network. Now firewalls are the first line of defense in protecting the internal network

from outside threats. You can consider the firewall to be the police force of the network.

Then there is the intrusion detection system. The IDs and IDs is a passive system designed

to identify when a network breach or attack against the network is occurring. They're

usually designed to inform a network administrator when a breach or attack has occurred. And

it does this through log files, text messages and are through email notification Friends,

and IDs cannot prevent or stop a breach or attack on its own. The IBS receives a copy

of all traffic and evaluates it against a set of standards. The standards that it used

may be signature based. This is when it evaluates network traffic for known malware or attack

signatures, or the standard may be anomaly based. This is where it evaluates network

traffic for suspicious changes, or it may be policy base. This is where it evaluates

network traffic against a specific declared security policy. An IDs may be deployed at

the host level when it's deployed at the host level. It's called a host based intrusion

detection system, we're hids more potent than the intrusion detection system is the intrusion

prevention system. The IPS an IPS is an active system designed to stop a breach or attack

from succeeding and damaging the network. They're usually designed to perform an action

or set of actions to stop the malicious activity. They will also inform a network administrator

through the use of log files, SMS, text messaging, and or through email notification. For an

IPS to work. All traffic on the network segment needs to flow through the IPS as it enters

and leaves the network segment. Like the IDS all of the traffic is evaluated against a

set of standards and they're the same standards that are used on the IDs. The best placement

on the network segment is between a router with a firewall hopefully, and the destination

network segment. That way all the traffic flows through the IPS. IPS are programmed

to make an active response to the situation, they can block the offending IP address, they

can close down vulnerable interfaces, they can terminate network sessions, they can redirect

the attack. Plus there are more actions that an IPS can take. The main thing is is that

they are designed to be active to stop the breach or attack from succeeding and damaging

your network. Let's move on to the virtual private network concentrator the VPN concentrator.

Now this will allow for many secure VPN connections to a network. The concentrator will provide

proper tunneling and encryption depending upon the type of VPN connection that is allowed

to the network. Most concentrators can function at multiple layers of the OSI model. Specifically,

they can operate at layer two, layer three and layer seven. Now outside of internet transactions,

which use an SSL VPN connection at layer seven, most concentrators will function at the network

layer or layer three of the OSI model, providing IPsec encryption through a secure tunnel.

Now let's talk about optimization and performance devices. We will begin by talking about the

load balancer. a load balancer may also be called a content switch or a content filter.

It's a network appliance that is used to load balance between multiple hosts that contain

the same data. This spreads out the workload for greater efficiency. They're commonly used

to distribute the requests or workload to a server farm among the various servers in

the farm, helping to ensure that no single server gets overloaded with work requests.

Then there's the proxy server. A proxy server is an appliance that requests resources on

behalf of a client machine. It's often used to retrieve resources from outside untrusted

networks on behalf of the requesting client. It hides and protects that requesting client

from the outside untrusted network. It can also be utilized to filter allowed content

back into the trusted network. It can also increase network performance by caching or

saving commonly requested web pages. Now that concludes this session on the introduction

to network devices, part two We talked about some security devices that you may find on

your network. And we concluded with optimization and performance devices that may also be present.

Hello, I'm Brian ferrill. And welcome to pace I t's session on networking services and applications

part one. Today I'm going to be discussing the basics of the virtual private network.

And then I'm going to move on to protocols used by virtual private networks. Now, there's

a whole lot of stuff to cover. So let's go ahead and begin this session. Of course, I'm

going to begin by talking about the basics of the virtual private network. A virtual

private network or VPN is used by remote hosts to access a private network through an encrypted

tunnel through a public network. Once the VPN connection is made, the remote host is

no longer considered remote is actually seen by the private network as being a local host.

There are many advantages to that, but I'm not going to cover them right now. Even though

the network traffic may pass through many different routes or systems, it's seen by

both ends as being a direct connection. The use of the VPN can help to reduce networking

costs. For organizations and business. The cost reduction is partially achieved, because

the VPN doesn't require the use of a dedicated leased line to create that direct connection.

There are several different types of VPNs there is the site to site VPN, which allows

a remote sites network to connect to the main sites network and be seen as a local network

segment. VPN concentrators on both ends of the VPN will manage that connection. Then

there's the remote access VPN, which is also called a host to site VPN. It allows select

remote users to connect to the local network. A VPN concentrator on the local network will

manage the connection coming in from the remote users. The remote system making the connection

uses special software called VPN client software to make that connection. The third type of

VPN is the host of host VPN, which is often called an SSL VPN. It allows us secure connection

between two systems without the use of VPN client software. A VPN concentrator on the

local network manages the connection. The host seeking to connect uses a web browser

that supports the correct encryption technology, which is either SSL or more likely TLS. To

make the connection to the VPN concentrator. It's time to discuss some protocols used by

the virtual private network. The big protocol for VPN is called Internet Protocol security

IPsec, which isn't actually a protocol in itself, but a whole set of protocols. IP sec

works at layer three of the OSI model or above. It's the most common suite of protocols used

to secure a VPN connection. IP sec can be used with the authentication header protocol

or the H protocol. h only offers authentication services, but no encryption. So it authentic

Kate's the user but there is no encryption of the session, or ipset can be used with

encapsulating security payload protocol or the ESP protocol. ESP both authenticates and

encrypts the packets. It is the most popular method of securing a VPN connection, both

H and ESP will operate in one of two modes. The first mode is transparent mode, that is

between two devices as in a host to host VPN, or they can be used in tunnel mode, which

is between two endpoints as in a site to site VPN, IP sec implements Internet Security Association

and key management eisah camp by default eisah camp provides a method for transferring security

key and authentication data between systems outside of the security key generating process.

It is a much more secure process. Then we have generic routing encapsulation. gra G

is a tunneling protocol that is capable of encapsulating a wide variety of other nuts

layer protocols, it's often used to create a sub tunnel within an IP sec connection.

Why is that? Well, IP sec will only transmit unicast packets, that's one to one communication.

In many cases, there is a need to transmit multicast, which is one to some communication,

or broadcast, which is one to many communication packets across an IP set connection. By using

GRP we can get that accomplished. Then there's Point to Point tunneling protocol pptp. This

is an older VPN technology that supports dial up VPN connections. on its own, it lacked

native security features, so it wasn't very secure. But Microsoft's implementation included

additional security by adding gr E. Two point to point tunneling protocol. Transport Layer

Security is another common VPN protocol. TLS is a cryptographic protocol used to create

a secure encrypted connection between two end devices or applications. It uses asymmetrical

cryptography to authenticate endpoints and then negotiates a symmetrical security key,

which is used to encrypt the session TLS has largely replaced its cousin, secure socket

layer protocol, and TLS works at layer five and above of the OSI model. Its most common

usage is in creating a secure encrypted internet session or SSL VPN. All modern web browsers

support TLS now I just mentioned secure socket layer or SSL. SSL is an older cryptographic

protocol that is very similar to TLS. The most common use is in internet transactions.

Why? Because all modern web browsers support SSL. But due to issues with earlier versions

of the protocol, it has largely been replaced by TLS. SSL version 3.3 has been developed

to address the weaknesses of earlier versions. But it may never again catch up to its cousin,

the TLS protocol. Now that concludes this session on networking services and applications

part one, I talked about the basics of the virtual private network. And then I talked

about the protocols used by the VPN network. Good day, I'm Brian ferrill. And welcome to

pace I t's session on networking services and applications part two. Today we're going

to be discussing network access services. And then we're going to move on to other services

and applications. As always, there's a fair amount of ground to cover. So let's go ahead

and dive into this session. I will begin with network access services. The first network

access service that I'm going to discuss is actually a piece of hardware, the network

interface controller or Nic, it can also be called the network interface card. The Nic

is how a device connects to a network. The network interface controller works at two

layers of the OSI model at layer two which is the data link layer. It provides the functional

means of network communication by determining which networking protocols will be used as

in a Nic that will provide Ethernet communication or Nic that will provide Point to Point protocol.

It also provides the local network node address through its burned in physical media access

control address at layer one the physical layer, the network interface controller determines

how the network data traffic will be converted a bit at a time into an electrical signal

that can traverse the network media being used, ie it provides the connection to the

network. Most modern computers come with at least one built in Ethernet Nic routers and

other network devices may use separate modules that can be inserted into the device to provide

the proper network interface controller for the type of media they're connecting to in

the networking protocols that are being used. Another network access service is radius remote,

authentic dial in user service radius is a remote access service that is used to authenticate

remote users and grant them access to authorized network resources. It is a popular triple

A protocol that's authentication, authorization and accounting protocol. It's used to help

ensure that only authenticated end users are using the network resources they are authorized

to use. The accounting services of radius are very robust. The only drawback to radius

is only the requesters the end users password is encrypted. Everything else gets sent in

the clear terminal access controller access control system plus or TAC x plus terminal

access controller access control system plus point what a mouthful, it sure is easier to

say. TAC x plus is a remote access service that is used with authenticate remote devices

and grant them access to authorized network resources. It is also a popular triple A protocol

used to help ensure that only authenticated remote network devices are using the network

resources that they are authorized to use. With TAC x plus the accounting features are

not as robust as those found in radius. But all network transmissions between devices

are encrypted with TAC x plus, let's move on to other services and applications. First

up is our AAS Remote Access Services. Now, RS is not a protocol, but a roadmap. Rs is

a description of the combination of software and hardware required for remote access connection.

A client requests access from an RS server, which either grants or rejects that access.

Then we have web services, creating a means of cross communication. Web Services provides

the means for communication between software packages or disparate platforms. It's usually

achieved by translating the communication into an XML format, or Extensible Markup Language

format. It is becoming more popular as systems diverged. Last up is unified voice services.

This is creating a better voice communication system. It's a description of the combination

of software and hardware required to integrate voice communication channels into a network

as in Voice over IP. That concludes this session on networking services and applications. Part

Two. I began by talking about network access services. And I concluded with other services

and applications. Hello, I'm Brian ferrill. And welcome to pace eyeties session on DHCP

in the network. Today, we're going to be talking about static versus dynamic IP addressing.

Then we're going to move on to how DHCP works. And then we will conclude with components

and processes of DHCP. And with that, let's go ahead and begin this session. And of course,

we begin by talking about static versus dynamic IP addresses. So how does a computer know

what its IP configuration is? Well, more than likely a computer received its IP configuration

from a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol server. Not only did the server give the PC

an IP address, but it also told the PC where the default gateway was, and more than likely

how to find a DNS server, a computer will receive its IP configuration in one of two

ways. Either statically, which means manually set or dynamically, which means through a

service like DHCP static IP address assignment works fine for very small and stable networks,

but quickly becomes unwieldly and error prone as the network grows and more nodes come on

to the network. So let's talk a little bit more about static IP addresses. The administrator

assigned An IP number and subnet mask to each host in the network, whether it be a PC, router

or some other piece of electronic equipment. Each network interface that is going to be

available to connect to the network requires this information. The administrator also assigns

a default gateway location and DNS server location to each host in the network. Now

these settings are required if access to outside networks is going to be allowed, that would

be through the default gateway. And if human friendly naming conventions are going to be

allowed, and that way, you can more easily find network resources, and that would be

through a DNS server. Now each time a change is made, as in a new default gateway is established,

each IP configuration on each host must be updated. That's why it becomes rather cumbersome

and complicated as the network grows. Now with dynamic IP addressing the administrator

configures, a DHCP server to handle the assignment process, which actually automates the process

and eases management. The DHCP server listens on a specific port for IP information requests.

Once it receives a request, the DHCP server responds with the required information. Now

let's move on to how DHCP works. Here is the typical DHCP process. Upon boot up a PC that

is configured to request an IP configuration sends a DHCP discovery packet. Now the discovery

packet is sent to the broadcast address 255255255255 on UDP port 67. The DHCP server is listening

to that port. It's listening for that discovery packet. When the DHCP server receives the

discovery packet, it responds with an offer packet, basically saying hey, I'm here to

help. Now the offer packet is sent back to the MAC address of the computer requesting

help, and it's sent on port 68. Once the computer receives that offer packet from the DHCP server,

if it's going to use that DHCP server, it returns a request packet. That means it's

requesting the proper IP configuration from that specific DHCP server. Once the DHCP server

receives the request packet, it sends back an acknowledgment packet. Now this acknowledgement

packet contains all of the required IP configuration information. Once the PC receives the acknowledgment

packet, the PC changes its IP configuration to reflect the information that it received

from the DHCP server. And that's the typical DHCP process in a nutshell. Now let's talk

about components and the process of DHCP. We're going to begin by talking about the

port's use. Now, I already mentioned this once, but I'm going to mention it again because

you need to know this. The PC sends its discovery packet out on the broadcast address 255255255255

on port 67. That's UDP port 67. When the DHCP server responds, it responds to the PCs MAC

address, Media Access Control address on UDP port 68. That's important. Remember the PC

uses UDP port 67. The DHCP server responds on UDP port 68. Then there's the address scope.

The address scope is the IP address range that the administrator configures on the DHCP

server. It is the range of addresses that the DHCP server can hand out to individual


